
Name : Ingo Hammann

E-mail : ingo.hammann&ppi.de

MIME media type name : Application

MIME subtype name : Vendor Tree - vnd.hbci

Required parameters : version : Version of the HBCI specification with the
pattern x.yz where x, y ans z are digits and z is omitted if it is 0; at the
moment valid version-parameters are: 2.01, 2.1, 2.2, 3.0 and 4.0

Optional parameters :
none

Encoding considerations :
The encodings base64 or binary MUST be used.

Security considerations :
HBCI has its own security framework and uses DES- and RSA-encryption.
Signatures are used for secure identifiaction of customers and banks. It is
also possible that banks and customers exchange messages using bilateral
concerted security techniques. This MIME-type is used for the exchange of
financial messages. There is no executable content in HBCI messages. (see
HBCI specification)

Interoperability considerations :
Conformance of HBCI MIME to the HBCI specification is required.

Published specification :
The specification of HBCI in German and English language can be downloaded
from http://www.hbci-zka.de/spezifikation/2.html

Applications which use this media :
German Banks support HBCI as an open standard. There are several HBCI server
products and at least two different client APIs. The client APIs will be
available free. Additional information: http://www.siz.de and
http://www.bdb.de

Additional information :

1. Magic number(s) : none
2. File extension(s) : .hbci and .hbc; .kom, .upa, .pkd an .bpd for special purpose
3. Macintosh file type code : none
4. Object Identifiers: none

The usage is limited to banking applications.

Person to contact for further information :

1. Name : Ingo Hammann
2. E-mail : ingo.hammann&ppi.de

Intended usage : Limited Use
The media type application/vnd.hbci is containing sequences of segments
specified in the Homebanking Computer Interface (HBCI) specification.

Author/Change controller : Zentraler Kreditausschuss (http://www.zka.de) is
the standardization board for the HBCI standard.
Please contact me under the above address if you need further information.

(created 17 Jan 2002)
